bASIC-FAQ
=========

FAQ for the bASIC sold by BTCFPGA / BitcoinASIC

The primary source is [this thread on
bitcointalk.org](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=79637). Later pages are more
relevant.

General Comments
----------------

Tom (aka cablepair) has shown to be conservative in estimations on both the hashing speed
and power requirements of his products. _However_, the estimates may be higher (or lower)
if custom firmware, or overclocking is employed.

Contacting Tom
--------------

Please read through this FAQ and as much of the
[thread](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=79637) as possible before contacting him.
Many questions have been answered here and Tom is a busy man. (Start from the end to get
the most recent posts)

If you require to contact Tom the two best methods are:

* Email: [thomas@thomasvanriper.com](mailto:thomas@thomasvanriper.com)
* Telephone: (315) 514-0269

Tom will reply to
[all](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=79637.msg1315070#msg1315070) emails he
receives; however, he may be delayed by a few days. If an urgent response is required
please consider calling him.

If you are outside the US and wish to call, please consider Google Talk or Skype as cheap
alternatives to calling from a landline.

Tom has previously stated that PM-ing him is not the fastes way to get a response. (source
pls)

Shipping Dates
--------------

Currently Tom is on schedule to ship around the first week of December. (source me)

Shipping Methods
----------------

Standard is USPS, though an upgrade to DHL is available.

Persons inside the United States won't notice the upgrade much; however, those outside the
US should notice a large improvement in shipping time. (source me)

Power Requirements
------------------

Current power estimates are [*at
most*](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=79637.msg1315070#msg1315070) 125 watts for
a 54 Ghash/s bASIC and approximately half for a 27 Ghash/s model.

A far more likely figure is under 100 watts.

Power Connectors
----------------

Both bASIC models will have a 4 pin molex connector and a barrel connector (aka female DC
coaxial connector).
[(Source)](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=79637.msg1315070#msg1315070)

The barrel connector is
[thought](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=79637.msg1314859#msg1314859) to be a
centre +'ve 2.1 mmID 5.5 mmOD type. (ID = inside diameter, OD = outside diameter)

[Images](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=79637.msg1314785#msg1314785).

Power Supplies
--------------

A bASIC [*will not*](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=79637.msg1315070#msg1315070)
ship with any power supply.

However, you can buy a PSU that is compatible from Tom's store
[here](https://www.bitcoinasic.net/index.php?route=product/product&product_id=54).
This PSU will be able to power up to 10 bASIC mining units. If you are planning on running
less than 10 a smaller PSU (in terms of wattage) might be more appropriate.









